My view on AI is that the future is
massively overhyped, but the current
capabilities of the models and what they
can do is largely underhyped. AI doesn't
have to get better to be useful. You can
do things like take a set of
construction drawings and extract every
relevant material requirement to make
your procurement easier. You can
cross-check your estimates and bid
submissions against the project
requirements to look for errors and
gaps. Or you can set up an analyzer
feature in your inbox to track and flag
any important commercial correspondence
that you might have missed. Maybe these
are useful applications for you or maybe
they're not. But with a little bit of
creativity and effort, I am 100% sure
that you can find useful applications
for AI to your construction business.
Does that mean you should be using it to
prepare estimates without checking or
rely on it to write an important email
to your clients? Well, no. Of course
not. It hallucinates. It misses context.
And it has some important limitations
like being able to read and understand
construction drawings properly. We need
to be strategic with how and when we
apply it so we're playing to its
strengths and we're not falling into its
weaknesses. So, my goal for the video is
simply to answer the question, how can
you become an AI first construction
company without focusing on these
overexaggerated future use cases and
finding realistic, practical
applications that actually save you time
and money? How can you make use of
potentially the most transformative
technology since the internet? Now,
maybe I overhype AI and I'll fall into
the trap, but you can make the judgment
for yourself. This video is really just
going to be all about giving you a
practical definition of what I mean by
AI first and using an integrated
approach to adopting AI versus an ad hoc
approach where it makes sense to apply
AI and where it doesn't. Different ways
to use and apply AI that can be through
chatbots, software or automations and
specific use cases and operational
applications of AI. We'll look at
everything from accounting to estimating
to project management and again where it
actually makes sense to apply AI. And
then finally, I'll talk about the
foundations or core principles like
structured data and an understanding of
the fundamental project management
processes that you need to actually make
AI useful. Okay. So, first I want to
define AI first and I want to put the
brakes on the hype train. AI is and
never will 10 times your business. It's
not going to fix the inherent problems
in the construction industry like
largely commoditized services and a race
to the bottom market, brutal contracting
and cash flow positions. And it's not
going to solve aggressive bad clients
and bad project managers and employees.
The construction industry has real
constraints to growth. and intelligence
was never actually the constraints to
most construction companies to begin
with. So, it's not automatically going
to be the solution. So, maybe it's not
the core constraint, but intelligence
does constrain operational performance.
Think about this. If you had 100 or a
thousand project managers that could
work for you for little or no cost, you
would likely get better results on your
projects. Now there's obviously a law of
diminishing returns and it's not as
clearcut as if you had 100 or a thousand
you get a thousand times results but you
would be able to perform core project
management project controls accounting
all these functions much more better and
effectively. It doesn't solve problems
like running into unexpected ground
conditions or going for a project when
you have a competitor who's
significantly under bidding. But
projects run well versus projects run
badly can have significantly different
financial outcomes. A bad estimate can
bankrupt a construction business. A
missed claim will lead to lost revenue
and incorrect material orders will delay
projects and increase cost. Now, these
sorts of mistakes are not 100%
preventable with AI. I'm not making the
promise that they are, but we can begin
to build processes where we add more and
more intelligence to them to reduce the
chances of things like this happening.
The way I see the role of AI and how to
think about applying it within a
construction business is what are the
important tasks you know you should be
doing or would do if you had more
resources. For example, spending more
time reviewing your estimates or
reviewing your contracts before you sign
them or maintaining a detailed
correspondence register with a client or
even stuff as simple as every time you
have a meeting with a client or a key
subcontractor you take meeting minutes
and note them down. So coming back to
this definition of what I actually mean
by AI first. Well, I define it as
applying intelligence to tasks where
previously it wouldn't have been
economical to do so. If you're a
construction business, a small
contractor, you probably can't allow for
seven project managers and project
engineers on a small project. Your
overheads would mean you never win the
work. And if you do get the project, you
wouldn't have the budget for them. But
using simple tools like AI where it's
integrated into software or setting up
your own automations, you can begin to
start to chip away at some of these
important tasks that historically
wouldn't have been economical to do.
Really, I see the role of AI as not
necessarily fundamentally reshaping the
entire way we manage a project, but just
being able to do the fundamentals
better. And to do this, I come to the ad
hoc verse the integrated approach. To
reliably do this, we need to better
integrate AI into our processes, not
just ad hoc and randomly use it.
Everyone uses Chat GVT to draft emails,
ask questions. It's become a surrogate
Google search. This isn't an AI first or
an integrated approach. This is just
randomly ad hoc usage, which isn't bad,
but it's the same thing everybody's
doing. So an integrated approach to
using AI would be having AI contract
reviews integrated to your tendering
process. So every contract before you
sign it, AI extracts key terms, compares
them to your standard terms and
conditions, flags departures, and
generates the first draft of your
departure register and identifies any
key commercial risks you need to budget
for in your estimate. The human then
reviews the output. And it's not an
optional step. It's a fundamental part
of your process. it's integrated into
the process. So to find use cases of
where it makes sense to integrate AI
into a process, we need to understand
what it's good at and what it's bad at.
So later on I'll talk about the specific
tools and the specific domains where you
would apply it. But just generally AI is
good at summarizing and distilling large
documents, first drafts and generating
registers, checking and verifying
outputs. For example, cross referencing
and checking your estimate against the
bid requirements, pattern matching, so
comparing contract terms, and processing
huge amount of volume without taking or
costing a huge amount. Now, that's what
it's good at, but what about what it's
bad at? Because understanding what it's
bad at is essential to understanding
where it actually makes sense to apply.
So, AI is not good at specific judgment
calls. So, things like, should we take
this job? Should we not? In this
situation, would it make sense to accept
liquidated damages or should we push
back on them entirely? Doesn't
understand inherently business risk or
the context behind it. The next
limitation of AI is actually getting it
to stay current and up to date with your
information context. Obviously, AI can't
go walk around the construction site. It
can't call subcontractors and suppliers.
Can't go through your project documents
or find some obscure file. It's
fundamentally got a knowledge cut off in
the actual training model. But then
also, unless you connect it to your
tools and your documents and your
background information, there's always
limitations to what context it actually
has, which is always going to limit its
ability to do tasks. The next challenge
we all know about is that AI
hallucinates. It can confidently make
stuff up. It can be fundamentally wrong
about things in a way we don't
understand or we would think is is
completely nonsensical, but it wouldn't
necessarily always come up with AI. The
next one is tool access. So we can log
into software, use it unless software is
specifically designed with either API or
MCP access. So AI can natively integrate
with it. A lot of the time it just can't
use the tools we needed to to do t. So
for example, now you can integrate your
Google drive with claude or chat GBT,
but specialist construction software
like for example team binder and a
connects don't have these native AI
integrations. So if you actually want
them to do a useful task which involves
updating some sort of register in a
software it fundamentally it's not
physically possible to do it yet. The
next limitation to understand which is a
bit more nuanced is visual reasoning. AI
can extract text very well but it can't
necessarily process images and complex
construction drawings. So something we
might actually think of as quite simple
or intuitive like tracing a condute from
one drawing to another is almost
impossible to get AI to do. And then you
also just have to be aware of the
obvious task limitations. A lot of the
time when we're doing construction work
or construction management work more
specifically, a lot of it is like
calling people and getting information.
AI can't do that. It's any time you're
getting information from other people,
working with other people. It's like AI
can't do it. So it's obviously so
limited by the fact that it's stuck in a
computer can only do computer work which
really is probably for project
engineering roles probably only 50% of
the actual job. The final point I'll
make is the security and particularly
data security limitations. This is both
in terms of the actual security. For
example, if you give AI access to your
emails, it could go and delete a whole
lot of things. It could send emails you
don't want. So there's obviously the
security and reliability, the actual
task it's doing and the risks associated
with it doing the task badly. Then
there's also the data security.
Sometimes you'll be working on projects
and your clients will give you
confidential information in the contract
you sign with them. There'll be specific
clauses in there about maintaining data
security, not uploading it to the
internet, these types of things. If
you're using AI, particularly if you're
using the chat interfaces like chat and
claude, they actually train on your
data. So you probably find you're
violating your contracts by doing this.
You have to be a you just really have to
be aware to data the data and security
concerns around using AI. Okay. So this
leads us to the sweet spot of AI uses
clear inputs and outputs definable rules
to follow human verifiable outputs and
limited risk. A task should have a clear
trigger start point and end points when
output it does. It should have rules or
a system you get it to follow. You
should be able to verify the output and
the limited risk. What I mean by this is
that if it hallucinates, if something
goes wrong, it's not catastrophic. So,
for example, AI preparing an estimate I
think is a bad use case of AI because
there's just so much money on the line.
Even if there's a low probability that
it hallucinates, hallucination would be
an absolute disaster in that situation.
But using it to maybe prepare a budget
estimate, which isn't a firm contractual
commitment, could be a good use case. Or
using it to cross-check your estimate as
an additional layer of security, that is
a good use case of AI. Okay, I want to
stop the video here and bring up what I
think is an important point and
something that is becoming increasingly
obvious to me over the past months where
I've been working a lot with
construction companies to implement AI.
Implementing AI is actually quite
difficult. Sure. Sure. Using chatbt
claude, prompting it, all that stuff is
relatively common sense, but actually
building AI into a system like an
automation is something you should do.
It does make sense, but it takes a
massive investment of time and
resources. For example, recently I was
working with an electrical contractor to
implement an AI document control system
that triggered automatically took
information when the client sent it to
him, stored it in the folders, and we're
just progressing down this path of
system getting more and more
complicated.
All these integrations into the
automation getting increasingly complex.
And partway through I just came to the
realization you're way better off just
getting someone on Upwork, hiring an
engineer overseas if you're in the US or
Australia at a fraction of the cost of
what you'd have to pay someone in
Australia to do this for you. Pay them
to do it one day a week and you will get
a result that is probably 10 to 100
times better than an AI system. Finding
good people on platforms like Upwork is,
I would say, an unbelievably underrated
strategy. So yes, some situations it
makes sense to apply AI. Other
situations it would make sense just to
outsource the task to overseas and
sometimes you'll find that the AI
equivalent of that task is more
expensive, less reliable and less
customizable. For example, I've been
looking into AI quantity takeoff tools
and some of the pricing I've seen from
vendors is like 20 or 30 US per drawing
and they don't even claim to be 100%
accurate. Like you could probably get
somebody to do a takeoff on a drawing
for a quarter of that cost and it would
be 100% accurate or as accurate as it
could be. Okay, so how can you actually
use AI? Well, there's really three
interfaces through which you can use AI.
Number one, the one we're used to would
be a chat interface. This would be using
something like Claude chat GBT or
Gemini. This is sort of good at ad hoc
questions and queries. Document Q&A
particularly if you actually you don't
use Gemini use notebook LM and you can
actually get AI to respond just on your
source documents. You can use it to
prepare first drafts or for example here
I was using it to prepare I was using it
to crosscheck an estimate I prepared and
then based on that information I then
got it to create a schedule based on the
data in the information. So there's lots
of different use cases here. The good
thing about this, it's very easily
customizable to exactly what you want it
to do. The other thing, it's good at
when you connect it to a database. So,
when you actually connect it to sort of
like a Google sheet where it's got your
source information, it can pull and use
that. And it's good for brainstorming.
Now, where are these tools not good?
Well, they're not good at consistent and
repeatable tasks. Say you want it to
prepare a project management dashboard.
Claude, you can create quite nice user
interfaces, but every time you get it to
pull your data and create a dashboard,
the dashboard will be slightly
different. Now, there are ways to
overcome this that I'll talk about, but
it's not good at consistent repeatable
tasks. They're not particularly good at
integrating into tools, although they
are getting much better now. You can
quite easily connect things like notion
drive or air table or the big apps allow
you to connect them directly to Claude
and chat. They also don't allow you to
automatically perform task prompt in
text or document out can't automatically
trigger them to run well chatbt you can
but the way it works I don't find that
useful other way you can actually use AI
is to integrate it into an automation so
automation software if you're not
familiar with them the things like nadn
make.com or zapia and that's basically
where you can connect AI into a system
this is good for repetitive workflows
data movement or triggered actions all
right so if I show you a little example
of what I'm talking about is this is an
automation to generate a progress report
every week that just summarizes where
we're up to what percent different tasks
are complete. It runs weekly so it's
triggered by a schedule. It finds the
relevant data in air table. So it gets
all your progress reports and
information. It structures that into a
progress report using AI. So this is
where AI is integrated into the
workflow. Then it sends an outbound
email to the client. So it says, "This
week we did 500 meters of trenching.
We're 30% complete. We laid x meters of
condo blah blah blah." So it's just
basically every week running an
automated progress report to keep our
client informed. So where do automations
fall over? Well, any sort of complex
decision making stuff. Obviously
automation is just a set series of
steps. Any complexity or nuance to this,
it's not going to work. They often have
more of an initial setup complexity.
Although Zapia is unbelievably easy to
use, they do have some initial setup
complexity and again it's just
constrained to the workflow. If you want
to do something that falls outside of
the workflow, you either have to adjust
the workflow or it's not going to be
possible. The next way to use AI is to
use pre-built integrations other people
have done in software packages we use.
So Procore has AI integrations. All the
big construction management softwares
are rolling out AI integrations. This is
an example of where I've used the AI in
my estimating and contract management
software. Basically, what it does is you
upload the scope of works and the
drawings. It analyzes that, extracts all
the key quantities, does a summary of
all the drawings, extracting all the
relevant pricing information, turns that
into a list of requirements. So, every
pricing requirement that you need to
capture in your price is structured and
put in a list. Gives you any
discrepancies between the drawings and
the scope of works. any RFIs or
clarifications you should ask and it
does a simple risk and opportunity
analysis. So, this is an example of
taking a set of bid documents, turning
it into a report, telling you what's
missing, what you should clarify, what
the risks are, extracting the key
quantities from the drawings to make the
estimating process easier. So, that is
done using AI, but you don't have to do
any setup. It's purpose-built
functionality. Someone else has already
set it up, tested it, made sure it
works. It's much easier to scale and
generally the security and data
requirements are much better and I mean
every one of these companies has
security and data policies that you can
easily check out and read but the data
in software tools generally depending on
what the specific vendor says they won't
be using they will protect your data
they're not using your data to train
future AR models which things like
catchb and claw do now the negative to
this is this won't reflect your unique
workflow this is just a standard way of
doing it that is captured in the
software. You might have a different way
you want to do it. You obviously have to
pay for the software. It's probably
going to be more expensive than just
using chat or claude directly. You have
some sort of you potentially have vendor
lock in depending on what sort of data
you're inputting and how much complexity
there is in setup. For example, once you
start using an accounting software,
you're not going to change midway
through the financial year. software
obviously has some sort of limited
flexibility and then there's always the
learning curve like you have to learn
how to use a new software. Okay, next up
I'm going to fly through and talk about
some AI use cases under different
domains like accounting, estimating,
design management, projects management,
so on and so forth. I'm going to list
out software applications that have done
this but obviously you can actually go
and get these software or you can use
them as inspiration for something you
want to do. Now again the specific your
use case for your business might be
different. My rule I I think it's good
to look at what other software vendors
are doing because it gives you
inspiration for what you could do
yourself and it shows you what is
actually technically possible. But
really for you to identify use cases you
just have to get good at identifying
problems having some understanding of AI
and understanding how the technology
works and where it actually makes sense
to apply. All right. So, accounting
applications in construction I see sort
of fit into two buckets. You've got your
making what you already do now easier.
For example, you could get a big
confusing invoice from a supplier. An AI
invoice processor can extract the
relevant pricing information from it
rather than you having to manually go
through the invoice. You can do this
with like Gemini or Claude or I use
Llama Pass a lot which is a specialist
AI passer. The other category of
applications in accounting are things
like predictive cash flow forecasting
where you take as input the budget the
schedule payment terms and it uses to
generate a cash flow forecast. So I
think that's a good application of AI.
Pretty sure this software does it
although I haven't actually played with
it but it just helps you to get better
hold on your cash position. Then you've
got estimating and quantity takeoffs.
Obviously this is the area I'm super
interested in and what I've spent a lot
of time on. You can get automated
quantity takeoffs. Again, the software
that I've seen claims to be specialists
at this are insanely expensive, more
expensive than getting an outsourcer to
do it and they don't claim to be 100%
reliable. The way I focused on this use
case is I use AI to extract an
indicative bill of quantities and
doesn't claim to be correct. So, I
qualify that it's an indicative bill of
quantities only, which I think is good
for this use case of generating first
pass estimates and budget pricing. Would
I get AI to actually prepare an estimate
for a lump sum $2 million contract? No,
because there's way too much on the
line. It's not a good use of AI. But I
think the other use case I really
focused on building into my software was
using AI to crosscheck your estimates
for errors and gaps. Then again, you've
got tenders and contract management.
I've done a more detailed analysis of
this on exactly how to review a contract
with AI. Again, if you just upload a
contract in into AI and get it to do a
summary of the key terms and conditions,
they actually just do a very good job.
You probably don't even need specialist
software for this, but I have a specific
process I like to go through to review
contracts with AI. But contract reviews
is a very good use case because they're
just a big pattern matching exercise.
But you can also get them to analyze
your tender documents like the example I
showed you before where you're looking
at getting extracting all the pricing
requirements to compare them to your
estimate helping you to identify risks
and opportunities. So I find the
artifact feature in Claude very very
useful for this type of thing. But you
can take your project documents and you
can get Claude to generate a GAN chart
in the specific UI of a GAN chart. So no
more manually highlighting bars in Excel
getting it to make trying to make some
pretty gant chart and every time you
adjust something you adjust it. Claude
can now very reliably just build Gant
charts and then you can just type and
text to adjust them. So when that's run,
I'll actually show you what it looks
like. But some other use cases for
scheduling and is obviously creating
schedules with AI, optimizing schedules,
risk forecasting, risk leveling,
schedule recovery plan. I saw this
company called N Plan. Um they have
basically trained their own AI on over
750,000 projects. So obviously Chat GBD,
Claude, things like that. They are
trained on all the data on the internet.
But endplan interestingly enough is
trained on 7 I don't know how they got
750,000 projects but they are trained on
basically a whole custom data set and
they will pick up specific things where
they know adds risk to projects. For
example, I spoke to someone from endplan
the other day and they were telling me
they have found this really interesting
link between I can't remember exactly
what it was. It was something like the
duration of the piling program and the
early works excavation before it were
linked. There was just these really
interesting insights that Bay had picked
up again because they have a proprietary
data set. They trained it on specialist
scheduling. They trained you on a lot of
different schedules. So they can give
you much more accurate predictions and
insights about risk. The next category
of tools I've been saying come to safety
and compliance. They claim to do things
like real-time hazard detection. And
basically the general way they seem to
work when I was looking at um this one
is they set up cameras around the site
and they use computer vision to monitor
things like people wearing PPE. Now what
I've seen in my experience is if you set
a up a whole lot of cameras around a
construction site and start monitoring
what everyone would do, you might solve
safety issues but you will create
industrial relations issues. So look,
maybe some of these are good for big
companies that have huge budgets.
I couldn't necessarily see the use cases
of some of these software for smaller
contractors. I would say I actually
spoke to someone the other day and they
had a very interesting use case of AI
and safety where they basically done
2,000 toolbox talks. So, not toolbox
talks. had done 2,000 job risk
assessments and they basically used all
these toolbox talks and created a
massive database of all the risks they
were exposed to, the most common risks
they were exposed to, and then use that
to plan their toolbox talks, which I
thought was a very interesting insight
because basically, again, it's probably
not going to change your construction
business dramatically, but it's just an
example of one of those little 1% gains
where they made the toolbox talks more
tailored to their work, and that was a
data driven insight. Again, to get
someone to manually go through all those
handwritten notes would have taken a
lifetime. That is a very good use of AI.
Now, quality in completions. Again, the
principle was very similar to what I saw
with the safety compliance where it
relied on computer vision and monitoring
construction sites. I mean, again, I
don't think that's the best use case. I
think setting up cameras and watching
people work is something that will
fundamentally cause industrial relations
issues because workers won't be happy
with being watched whenever they're
working. But I can see the benefits with
things like quantity verification.
You could potentially get installation
accuracy. I think where you do get
benefits with quality and completions is
you can do things like document
verification. So comparing how drawings
change from one revision to another,
making sure that downstream documents
aren't impacted. For example, if you get
an RFI, does it impact an ITP? Those are
checks you should be doing but probably
don't do. The other use good case would
be similar to the example of the toolbox
talks is you could look at all your
historical defects and then you could
actually identify ways to improve the
performance of the works going forward
by identifying what are the key quality
and defect issues you run into. Again,
the reason this hasn't been possible in
the past is if you think about a civil
construction project and you have
defects with a structure on 10 jobs,
they might use 10 different words to
describe that same defect or 10
different sentences. In the past, it was
impossible for you would have had to pay
someone to manually go through every
single defect and categorize them.
They'd have to come up with reasonable
buckets and then you probably lose some
sort of detail when you're going through
this process. But you can use AI to do
that. Now that that sort of large data
set analysis is a very good use case.
Then we've got project management
coordination. So things like document
search and retrieval, generating RFIs,
tracking change orders, progress
reporting. This is an AI construction
management platform called Mast that
creates you can create project
dashboards. So you can type with text.
You can upload your project documents
and then it will actually create a
dashboard for tracking performance based
on the schedule, the budget, these sorts
of things. So it's again it's just
making your job of creating dashboards
something that you probably know you
should do but aren't doing easier. Okay,
so those were example applications
across each of the core domains. Some of
them maybe they're useful for you, some
of them maybe you're not. The next part
we need to talk about is how do you
actually get the most out of AI? So the
number one most important thing you can
have to get more out of AI is data. What
do I mean by data? It's using your
information, your historic estimates,
your historic production rates, your
specific project information as context
when you're getting AI to perform tasks.
AI is simply trained on all the data
they scraped from the internet. If you
want AI to produce an estimate for your
project and you give it no additional
information, it will give you a terrible
generic answer. But if you wanted to
actually produce an estimate the right
way, you'd need to give it the drawings,
the build quantities, the
specifications, your cost library, your
historical production rates, all the
different costs you incur for different
labor plan materials, subcontractor
quotes, and any constructibility
constraints. If you give it all that
information, all that data, you'll get a
better outcome out of it simply because
you've given it more context. So,
foundation number one is going to be
structured and easily accessible data.
Now, I've sort of already covered this
point to death, but foundation number
two is good use cases. Not everything
benefits from AI. You shouldn't be
looking to apply AI to your business.
You should be looking to solve problems.
Sometimes AI makes sense to solve those
problems. Sometimes it doesn't. AI is
good with tasks where intelligence is
the bottleneck. Things that you've done
poorly because you couldn't justify the
time. Things not done at all because
they're too timeconuming and you don't
have the budget for your overheads to
manage them. High volume repetitive
tasks and pattern matching against known
standards. This is a bad use case of AI.
There's a lot of money on the line when
you prepare an estimate. It's hard to
give it all the context. it's it's not
going to end well for you if that's how
you're using AI. Now, foundation number
three is good guardrails. AI can make
confident mistakes. We know it can
hallucinate. It won't necessarily flag
you if it's missing context. So, every
AI workflow should have human
verification.
That's maybe not always going to be as
simple as going through the entire work
the AI done because that would just be
double doing. Having ways to check the
output, being able to make sure it made
sense. For example, again, you get AI to
prepare a budget estimate. You should
have another quick parallel way to do
budget pricing to understand whether the
answer makes sense or not. Some error
checking mechanism or validation against
known data. So, some examples of where a
human would be able to catch error is if
you get AI to extract the contract
terms, a human reviews them before
signing and submitting. AI generates an
estimate. A human does a sanity check of
the cost. AI flags correspondence risk.
The human decides whether to take action
on them. Foundation number four is
automation. So having an understanding
of how to automate different tasks and
where it makes sense to apply
intelligence to it. So this is basically
say you want to build an invoice
processing system. How does it start?
What's the trigger for it? Is it an
email being received? Is it uploading a
file to Google Drive? What is the data
processing? How do you want to extract
it? What is the output format you want
the data in? And what is the output
action for the task? Having an
understanding of how to automate a task,
not necessarily with AI, but just a good
understanding of automation in general
and how automation tools work will give
you much better applications. The last
two foundations is understanding
limitations. understanding where it's
more difficult to give the AI enough
context than it is to do the work
yourself. Understanding what tools it's
possible to give it access to, what
tools you can't. Understanding the
hallucination risks and what actually
underlies and drives them. Understanding
how and when it can process visual
information. So for example, I know AI
can do good quantity takeoffs if it is
counting something like a light fitting
using the text tag, but I know it will
do a terrible job at measuring a conduit
that goes through a wall where there's
not explicit measurements on the
drawing. So building an understanding of
the limitations and working around those
limitations. Now the final one is
understanding privacy and security rules
and regulations about how to use it. If
you sign a contract, it likely has in
there IP or data security information or
potentially even a non-disclosure
agreement. That means you wouldn't be
allowed to upload the data to unsecure
servers or to things like chatbt where
they're training on your data. So, you
just have to pay attention to the tools
you're working and understand the
privacy and security implications of
what you're doing. Okay, I want to wrap
up with three simple rules about how to
actually go out and start doing stuff
with AI. Number one, start small. Pick a
very niche problem that you can quickly
solve in the simplest way possible.
Don't try to do the most complicated
system ever. Start very small, very
simply and solve the problem. Basically,
if you start where there's pain or time
consuming or waste that is a good place
to start. Pick one problem, pick a small
solvable problem. Then choose the right
tool for the software. Sorry, choose the
right tool for the problem. Maybe
software makes sense, maybe a chat
interface makes sense, maybe an
automation makes sense, but I would say
automation would probably be more
complicated. So, you'd want to start
with either a chatbot or a pre-built
software. Then do a pilot project,
measure the ROI, see if it's actually
saving people time, reducing errors,
whether there's cost benefits, and then
refine and scale it. So, start small and
then scaling. Now, we know to do this
effectively, you're going to need some
sort of structured data in context that
you can easily give to the AI, a clear
use case where intelligence is the
bottleneck, guard rails in place, so
some human verification process, some
automation capability if you're doing an
automation and to know the boundaries of
it. And then again, just measure
success. It should result in time-saving
error reduction, safety improvements, or
quality gains, or a happier